# Law-based AI
| Designers | Implemented | GitHub Links |
|---|---|---|
| Lyroth001| :x: No | TBD |
## Abstract
The goal of this document is to lay a framework for more interesting gameplay between the Station AI and the Research Director. This is through creating a way for the RD to lookup the AI's laws and abilities, as well as counter them. This will change the AI and silicon roles, as well as affecting Science gameplay (mostly for RD) and antag gameplay, by formally adding Malf AI. Cyborgs are not made subordinate to the AI on roundstart, but can be through the AIs actions during the round 

## RD's Story: A Malfunctioning AI roundflow
  

## Introduction/Game Plan
Most departments in the game have a crisis that they are best posed to cause and/or solve. For security, it is dealing with traitors, or rallying the station against nukies. Engineering fixes spacing, blackouts, and destroys the station by singuloosing. Med is the only way to cure a zombie outbreak. Conversly, in a typical round, science only causes problems for itself (through explosive artifacts), with the occasional supercritical anomaly. This document seeks to change this by giving them the crisis of a malfunctioning AI

## AI Changes & Malf AI
Malfunction - to fail to work or operate correctly. This forms the thesis of the document. A Malfunctioning AI should not suddenly be able to perform actions a regular AI could not take - the malfunction is a software one, causing dangerous laws to affect the AI's behaviour.

"Minor" vs "Major" Malf. A minor malfunction would be caused by an ion-storm adding randomised lawsets. While these can be dangerous, the majority should seek to create an eccentric or obstinate AI, over a murdourous one. A major malfunction refers to the roundstart antag, which has an overtly hostile lawset that causes direct conflict with the crew at large.

AI modules - In narrative these are generated by other NT AIs during their lifespan, to allow for enhanced operational capabilities. These are the abilities the AI can use to interact with the world. All current AI abilities should be converted to modules, and *all* modules should have a feasable non-malf AI useage.</br>
Potential roundstart modules -
  - Door access
  - Door bolting  
  - Radio access
  - Camera vision
  - Mass scanner
  - Holopad access
  

The AI can purchase modules as the round progresses with bytes, which can be obtained through --------</br>
Potential midround modules - 
  - Door shocking
  - Silicon Override - Adds a law 0 to a target cyborg, instructing it to follow the directives of the Station AI. This would have a significant cooldown and/or byte cost to activate
  - Camera hearing - AI eye can hear conversations local to it
  - Turret deployment - stun/disabler turrets



## Science Changes

It is a common joke among the SS14 community that the RD is essentially just a scientist with an office. This proposal seeks to change that by making them instrumental to monitoring and defeating a malfunctioning AI

### New Consoles
Both of these consoles require Research Director access.

AI capability monitoring console - available roundstart, and should be mapped in the RD's office. UI has a probe button, and for a medium amount of research points (comparable to a technology), reveals one of the AI's modules

AI lawset monitoring console - must be made with exotic materials. Initially shows slots for ''''DEFAULT LAWSET NUMBER''' of laws. Each slot is a UI element that has a 'probe' button, which, for the cost of a large amount of research points, reveals the AI's law in that slot after an amount of time. There is also an 'up' and 'down' probe button, to test for laws in different slots. Once a law is revealed, that slot must be probed again to see if the law in that slot has changed.

While research points costs should not be prohibitivly expensive, they should be a significant investment to disincentivise spamming the consoles

### Law boards
Lawsets are no longer available roundstart, they are instead printed from the circuit imprinter. Lawboards are available as tier 2 or 3 technology (Particularly powerful/Meta ones such as Nutimov should be tier 3)

### Law Changes
Law changes should be considered part of RDs remit, and (especially under Green alert/similar) occur at their discretion. 

### Point donation
Science can also donate research points to the AI, to transfer to bytes at a 1:1 ratio. This will be done ------. This may be done in the case of significant station threats, such as nuclear operatives, to allow the AI to rapidly improve its capabilities 

## Guidelines for additional lawsets
It should be made clear in the PR whether a lawset is intended for Malf or non-Malf AI. </br>
All lawsets should be expected to be obtained by the crew/AI during normal rounds - admeme lawsets are unnecessary due to admin tooling and would just lead to bloat

### Non-Malf lawsets
These need not be too permissive, however they should remember that a real person is playing the AI who wants to have fun.
These should (usually) not allow for crew harm, at least not under typical operating conditions
The more permissive and powerful a lawset, the harder it should be to access (this is done by increasing costs to print the law board, and upload the laws)

### Malf lawsets
These should be rather permissive, although they may have a gimmick to enocourage using certain methods/roleplay shticks
  Gimmicks should not enourage other players to break rules or self-antag (E.g. a cult leader lawset)
These should (usually) allow for crew harm
